Ready? Yeah. Ready. Go for it. Rock and roll.
>> Hi, everyone. We're really excited to see so many people in our meeting. It's like an uncommon occurrence.
To the July
regular meeting for the Andover Board of Ed.
We'll call to order with the pledge of allegiance, and then we will do public comments.
>> Pledge allegiance to the flag of The United States Of America
and to the republic for which it stands,
one nation under God, indivisible,
with liberty and justice for all.
>> So
we'll start with public comment.
In terms of public comment, please try to keep your comments to items on the agenda and limit it to three minutes. Maureen
Sullivan.
>> They're probably not familiar that you're gonna call on all of them. Okay. Yes. If you don't have you don't
>> you don't have to have a client. I'm gonna say it out confident.
But you can also say something. Yeah. Oh my gosh.
Put her on. No
pressure.
Okay.
>> Okay. You're all set?
I am all set. Okay.
There he is.
Grace
W.
Hello.
Kaylyn Baldy.
Hi.
>> It's the best comment we had. It's a good one. Yeah.
Short and sweet.
>> Christina
Caterino, am I saying that right? You are. Hello.
Hi.
Doris Maldonado.
>> Hi, everyone. I'm a mom and a sub, proud sub. Thank you.
>> Who's that one? Val Bruno? I don't know. Val Bruno.
Can she She'll know. Julie
Piphone.
I'm not sure.
>> No? Okay. Julie. And Donla Don is our She's our clercler. Yep.
And then
your name? For
>> the minutes, can you just say your last name? Yeah. Bailey Mike.
Does anyone have any communications that they would like to discuss that are not otherwise in the agenda?
>> I don't have any this is why you might I tried to get it before you came. Do you want me to disclose the board? We could now if you want. Yeah. Maybe we'll start. I think it's the same one when I'm here.
>> Are getting pretty, yeah, these days. Yeah. We've been done. Okay.
And then
we have celebrations
>> with many people in Zoom attendance. Yes. So I'm so excited to introduce many. Not everyone could make it tonight, but certainly I will try if they didn't get to make it tonight in August.
To introduce, so we as the board is aware, we had
Deb Ivy who retired this year after thirty one years as a para in Andover. So we are so thankful for her service. So she retired. We also had Brie O'Donnell
resign of who was a pre K paraeducator,
and April Lyonberger,
our kindergarten teacher, resigned. So that we were filling some paras last year, as you know, with subs and then our new teacher. So
without further ado, I'm gonna start let's see who is here. I'm actually gonna start with Kylie since she's here in person. So this is Kylene Mike. We are excited to welcome her as a paraeducator
for the 2526
school year.
If you don't know her, she's a mom of our community. She has a preschooler this year who's going to be in kindergarten.
We can't believe it. And a new preschooler coming in. So she's been subbing here at Andover Elementary as both a teacher sub and a para sub. So she is very familiar with our building and deeply committed not only from her own children's experience, but already working with us here.
She's previously been the rec director in Bolton. She has experience working with kiddos and planning, and so we're very excited to welcome Kylene to our team. I didn't get it. Absolutely.
>> Kylene, she asked for your last name, but I'm sure our board clerk wants to know how to spell your first name. Yeah. So the first name is k y l e e n.
>> Thank you. Absolutely.
So joining, Kylene,
I don't see on here our other
paraeducators,
but I'm gonna just tell you them and tell you a little bit about them, and they can certainly, have them meet them. So Shay Butler. Shay was with us, for a couple of months as a sub, a para sub this past year, and she was a fantastic
addition to our team.
Shay
is going to join us as a full time paraeducator,
and I think it's important to note she is also a dog walker. And so we always say I always think that job's gotta be way harder than this one because,
you know, me and animals. But she has been working with our elementary kiddos, and she will join us this year.
Haley Kegler
has spent five years as a paraeducator in Coventry,
and she worked in their early childhood program in Coventry. And so she's
when working with students with mild to significant disabilities,
she's excited to did you get hit? No. She's excited to come on board to an elementary school,
in addition to a pre K, so that's exciting and bring her experience.
We have Sam Dooley. Sam was a paraeducator in Middletown last year. And lucky for us, sad for them, she's moved closer to our area.
But her principal spoke very highly of her ability to work with many ages
and disabilities as well. So she's excited, and we're excited to have her join our team.
And then lastly, Amaya Williams.
She has experience working with our youngest age. She's been in two preschools
private preschools in the area and surrounding towns and also looking forward to coming into
a public school and really broadening her experience. So we're very excited for our paras to join our team.
Okay. Now we're gonna move on to our friends here on Zoom. So I'm gonna start with, Caitlin, Dalby here, and Christina that you see.
So Caitlin and Christina, you may have seen familiar faces. They were student teachers with us, this past year. So Caitlin was in second grade with miss McAltric, and Christina was in first grade with missus Beloine.
And they were fantastic. So both had to go through, I think it's always important to note, rigorous interview processes just like our other candidates.
And I think there's something to be said when you're already in the community and you choose to join it. Similar to Kylene, they they know what they're getting into, so to speak, and that speaks volumes. And so we're excited about that. Both work in the summer as camp counselors with kids, have a wide,
background in working with children in addition to teaching. So Caitlin will join us in third grade with missus Godwin,
and Christina is joining our fantastic pre K team. So
they are very excited to get started.
And
we're
again, it's it's it just it really spoke to the interview team how they spoke about us and what they've seen. And they've been in other placements. Right? And this is a place that they wanted to start, and I say, hopefully, finish their teaching career. So we're excited to welcome them on board.
Next, we have Grace Woldarczyk.
Grace, you know I have to say, Grace is it's 1AM, and look how together she looks. So Grace is over in France.
She's still here tonight.
I say tonight. Italy. Italy.
Italy. Oh my gosh.
Italy. And
>> so Grace, she said it's fine. I'll be there 1AM. And I think that that is Right there. That is who her heart is.
So she's an au pair this summer, which is pretty cool and has done a lot of traveling. She was actually in Kenya, right, this winter teaching English. And so she really wowed us as a brand new educator as well.
She has after her student teaching in the fall, she took a long term sub as a third grade teacher
near where she was finishing her undergrad, which is awesome, and we're thrilled to have her joining Katie in fourth grade this year.
Yeah.
So she's gonna bring her international travels. I'll live through her because, yes, I know. This is good for me. So
thank you, Grace, for joining us at 1AM.
And then last but not least, we have doctor Maureen Sullivan over there.
I wonder they probably don't see themselves in the same corners. So Maureen is coming home as she likes to say. So she spent over twenty years teaching in Texas, but she grew up in Willington, I believe. Right? Is that correct? So she's excited, moved back to Connecticut.
Last year, she was in
Ashford as a sixth grade teacher. So she'll be joining our five six team Mhmm. And really focusing on our literacy and our ELA for fifth grade, which we're excited about.
Yeah. So that's our fantastic team. We you know, you all can imagine
similar in your industries, I'm sure, how much time and energy goes into hiring, and it was a big hiring year for us. And we are really, really excited,
with the team that we have. And I think
it's we have a lot of familiar faces, which is even better for kids and for staff and who know our climate and culture and are willing and ready to jump in. And those that are new to us, I have no doubt some have already been in and out of the building and and emailing and asking questions and are ready to go. So
thank you all for joining us on this summer evening. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you. Welcome aboard. Yes. Any questions or anything on that?
I think we're good. So you guys, as you are certainly welcome to enjoy this meeting, but there is zero judgment for logging off. And, yes, I appreciate it. Especially, Grace, go to bed. Yeah. Go to bed, Grace. Go to bed. But thank you so much guys for for joining us, and thank you, Kylene, for being here. Good night. Thank you. Good night. You guys.
Good night.
Thank you. Bye.
Bye. Have a day. Good luck.
Bye. Bye.
Bye. Bye. So
>> we'll move on to approval of minutes from last month's meeting.
Does anyone have any
corrections?
>> I move to approve the minutes for the regular meeting of 06/11/2025.
I second. Okay.
All in favor?
>> All abstain because I was Yeah. You weren't Yeah. I wasn't here.
Okay.
So that's 12345401.
0. No. Well, yeah. 01.
>> 2. Right? Because we're free. Free time savings. Not yet. K.
I do. Exit. K.
>> Does anyone want to add or delete
other things on the agenda tonight?
I I don't have anything. K.
Eric?
Nope. I'm good. K. I'm good.
>> K.
So in terms of oral reports,
the only real, like, oral report thing that I have
is that we did have the
auditor
attend the last meeting that the board of finance had. Mhmm. And he did review most of,
which is kind of similar to what was written. But it was it was a good review. It was a pretty good presentation. And
Joanne Hiebert had asked, and I kind of agree in the future if we could have that done as a joint meeting between all three boards because it was it was really well done. Mhmm. And I think it's important information for all of us to get in the same time frame and the same context.
So that should be recorded if you guys want to watch it. I did screenshot some of his slides that I thought were more applicable.
I'm happy to share those.
But there wasn't really anything super outstanding from it aside from
what we've kind of already discussed on that, the kind of summary report.
The only other big thing,
if you guys have been following town stuff,
is the
agreement that was made between the board of ed and the board of finance regards to unexpected funds at the end of the year that go over what we're allowed to put in our 2%.
The town attorney now has issue with how that is being done, and they may want to change
it on a go forward.
But nothing will be done retroactively to a year or two that that that has already gotten through. Okay. I don't have any further update on that. And or 2%?
No. So Over and above. Over and above for funds that we would put into or Yeah. Funds that we put in or back to the other ones. Okay. Thanks. And I think the clarification
from the auditor was whether or not it needs to go to a town meeting Mhmm. Or whether or not the board of select meeting needs to also agree for it to go into that fund.
So that will be coming down the pike at some point shortly because we will have Yeah.
A bunch of year. Two is good too. Yeah. So Stay tuned.
But aside from that, I think that's the most in terms of updates Okay. That's not in other places.
>> Val, you ready?
I'm ready for Val. Val. Yes.
Yes. I'm ready. We're gonna have Val save her voice a little bit. That's a good idea. Yeah. So she has a few updates.
I'll do my very best. I know I'm not Val. But so the solar amendment was sent with Caitlin and Jeff McGuire's signature on it. So they're scheduling installation. So that's the Right. They are on solar.
The after school grant, we're still waiting to hear. I know she logged in even today and was like, come on. Here it is. Yeah. I know. So we have not heard yet. So, hopefully, you know, shortly.
The bathroom, we're waiting on final drafts. And then as soon as we have those, she'll hold a committee meeting ASAP. We can schedule that to get that going. So she was just waiting to hear from them.
Nick Caruso is all set for August 13 for the board, what's it called, retreat? Yeah. And if you have any food restrictions, if you can send those to Val so she can make sure there is appropriate
>> and lovely dining. And just a reminder for you guys, that's we're gonna start at 04:00 here.
>> Yep. And then we'll just run into our regular meeting. Yes. So she wants to make sure she gets the right food. And then
the sign ups I have for the cave convention, I think, Caitlin, you did yours. Yeah. There is the lower price if you do it if we do it by August 22. Yeah. So she would greatly appreciate if you have one, you know, I have these for you if you could get that in so that we can get the lower price there. It's a Friday, Saturday, and you could choose,
like, the one day or both. Yes. And she said, you know, you can change names later or dates, but she needs to put that initial kind of to hold the spot and and pay the small. Meaning, like, if you're up for an election this year and you think you're not going to rerun or that someone else would fill your space. We can still kind of move through that.
And she suggests Friday. It's more exciting.
Then is actually good. Yeah. And food is free with your registration.
So I have those for you.
>> Then I can transition right into mine, and then maybe questions overall. Is that okay? Real quickly, just so everybody knows Sure. The speaker, as far as I know, is former secretary of education Miguel Cardona. Oh, really? Yeah. Cool. Oh, wow. So that would be really cool. Yeah. That would be cool. Alright.
>> So I don't have too much, of course, in the middle early July, but it is busy, right, regardless of there not being kids here. So the building is doing fantastic. Custodians are working on
classrooms and floors,
making great progress there.
Our pre k summer camp will be shortly just another week away, the last two weeks of July, and we have about 30 kiddos signed up for that, which is exciting.
And then we with the mental health grant and that she has, we're gonna be doing some family pre k k events,
an event at the end of the month, so we're excited about that as well.
We are in the summer, of course, planning for professional development even though not necessarily engaging in it right this second. So as I mentioned to last meeting, a little bit around the math and the building thinking classrooms. Marlborough
is actually following suit. They're doing building thinking classrooms as well. So we've already started to collaborate on resources and
just collaboration time and thinking about what that could look like. Marlborough and us have a very almost the same calendar.
Hebron's PD runs a little bit differently. They use theirs for conferences and things like that. So it's a little trickier on actual professional development days, but certainly, we still will communicate with them as well.
I just wanted to to say that I also participate in professional development, and so I did have the opportunity, and I'm so thankful. Two weeks ago, I went to Orlando for the weekend and attended a principal conference, which was really exciting.
And it was 50 women
principals and assistant principals from across the country Oh, that's
led by Shanavia Patterson, who is just a fantastic leader.
So that was really great, really about leading with purpose, leading with clarity,
and really moving, of course, schools forward. So that was exciting.
You know, just as Val participates in things, I just kinda wanted to share that with the board, and certainly you supported because you for my ticket. So I appreciate to the conference.
And
we'll continue, you know, to be professional development. I'm also PMT trained, so that de escalation
strategies, I renew that in the summer,
and all of our, you know, the normal trainings that will also participate in terms of work state and PMT and things like So we are busy. And, of course, with new staff, we'll have some additional training opportunities for them in August as they have to do some of the additional kind of full trainings that our staff only does refreshers and things like that. So that's all being worked on and planned for
In addition to you know, Holly and I met this morning, and we spent a lot of time in the summer too just planning for kiddos coming in, moving in.
I know there was not a I looked in the packet real quick, a number of
enrollment report, but I don't know. I have a pseudo one for you. So we are,
at two twenty five kindergartners, which is where I anticipated us, which is great. We're at 67 pre Kers.
Two walked in with registrations and overs yesterday. So I'm pretty happy, which is exciting, but big,
which brings us to two fifty two. And then I have an additional two students, a second and a third grader that came in toward. They have not physically handed in paperwork,
but I I mean, I anticipate. They they said they're moving here. So so that would bring us to February.
Uh-huh. So I don't I have it broken down by class certainly if you want it at any time. Terms of, like, the sixth grade class, you're still okay? We're We're at twenty eight now. Okay. So we're at twenty eight, which is where we were at the end of last year. We got one left, but we got one new. Okay. They know they know the class you come to. Right? So
but with our five six team, as we talked about, they'll be split for some. Fifth will be split for some. They'll be together for some. And we will utilize our staff accordingly where needed. Yeah. And how many are we gonna see? 27.
Oh, it's it's not that much. So it's really, like, which do you choose in terms of splitting. So fifth will be in two homerooms Yeah. Whereas sixth will be in one homeroom. That really makes sense developmentally.
Fifth will be split for two blocks and together for one. Sixth is the opposite, split for one, together for two.
But we're strategic in terms of our interventionists and our paras and how we support those kids. Yeah. Yeah. So that that's exciting. That's looking good.
Yes. Other enrollment or questions overall? That's what I have for today. With all the staff that you highlighted,
fully staffed? We're we're fully staffed, so so exciting. Yay. We're we're just you know, we're solidifying our long term subs that are coming out from, you know, our maternity leaves Right. At the end, but we'll we'll get those in place. But full time staff, we are ready to go ready to wrap up. Are there are you gonna have long term subs going, like, the start of the school year and stuff? Yes. Okay. Yep.
So we're just kinda getting those
signed, sealed, and delivered, but we're we're excited. We're excited. That's great. Absolutely.
>> And this I don't know if this is for you or for Val. Are there any other, like, maintenance things in terms of summer projects that need to happen before school starts?
>> The elevator got done, so that was exciting. We're Oh, wow. A little glitchy today, so they're coming back just to kind of figure out what what's going on there. But there was also I hear you're to leave today. Elevator that that Valve had told me is the
>> HVAC inspection. HVAC inspection. It's nice. Yep.
The sensor on the door, like, that tells you if a person is entering or leaving. Like, you know how the door Yeah. Yep. Again for you, that they didn't replace, and so that will fail at some point. And when that fails, then it's a bigger,
I think, a bigger thing to replace. Am I remembering that correct?
>> Yes. Not urgent. Yeah. Just on our. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. So that's going well. The HVAC is coming, but all of the other facilities is your typical summer, yep, Scott led projects that we've been working on.
Nothing major, though. And then the solar guy will do. Yeah. Right. Once we get that, they're scheduling, and then they'll do their That's right. Awesome.
Yeah.
>> Okay. Questions that you need to?
I don't have any questions, but thank you, Taylor. Yeah. Absolutely.
Check. Financial report.
Okay.
>> This week, I'm trying to wrap up the the old school year, but I've still got a few outstanding purchase orders. So if you just if you were able to look at the expenditure reports as part of your packet
and
let me know if you have any questions.
We're still looking at
around $1.46
for the final number.
So about 10,000 higher?
Yes. Okay.
>> Do you have a question, Carrie, on the first page of the
whatever.
Summary or details. Oh, summary or whatever. Okay. It it's all the same thing, my dear. Tuition.
Tuition. We ended up at minus seven,
or what does that mean? 7, and then there's a minus next to it? Or Remember, I have I
>> we had to transfer money around. Yo. No. I remember that. So that's part of the transfers,
but there shouldn't be it shouldn't be overextended.
>> Yes. It's it's at seven minus. So I guess that's just a typo. I apologize. Yeah. Well, that's how the system figures it out, but I can look into that a little bit further. Make sense that we spend about 7% because
Yeah. Five out of 92,000.
Yeah. Yeah.
I would be But remember there's transfers. Let me just No. No. No. No. I knew there were transfers. I just curious about how it got that done. Some because somehow they expended look at the It has the expended as a negative
>> Yep. Number. So I have the same question. I looked at that. And the detail is
tuition that we received.
>> Oh, no. I'm credited. I understand all that. It's just Yeah. Why is it a minus If you look at the detail, it's easier to understand.
>> If you look under the detail, you can see I did. What was transferred and what was, you know, what was collected.
>> Yes. Because we had a student move out of Andover that had the outplace tuition. Yep. So No. End of. No.
We don't. Oh, I apologize. No. We had a student move out of Andover that then chose to finish out the school year, Jared, because she was graduated sixth grader. Yep. And we we actually had a couple of we had a couple of tuition
>> paying students this year. Yeah. So that's what the auditor had me set it up as tuition income
to offset any expenses
Okay. To that line. So, yeah, we're fine. But that's why it just looks It's
>> weird. It's just the way that the system's calculating it. Yeah. Okay? My question on that was Yeah. Are those are those students continuing,
or is that should we might that just be easier? I don't know.
>> The one student I'm thinking of is,
I mean, they're they're
they're trying to it's a it's a staff member, and, they're trying to
finish up their, like, home in
Andover. I don't wanna give too much information.
Yeah. Okay.
>> Okay.
And I think Valerie, too, and I don't wanna get too detailed either that we have two Outplay students this coming year. Yeah. They're they're they're siblings. Okay. And I've already actually
>> finally got something ahead of time. It's Oh, magnet. Okay. Yeah. Magnet. You said Outplay. I apologize. Okay. We do magnet school students. Terrific. Yeah. Two. Could potentially have some concerns in addition. Okay. Yes. We may have out placed. We'll have to see. Okay. So those are the expenditure reports.
Still tweaking them. Yep. So you know? But like I said, we'll land about $1.46.
Does anybody have any other questions about the expenditure reports? I just wanna bring your attention to these other
lovely reports. The lovely reports, Terry. Yes.
So this one,
Caitlin really likes happy with these. So Caitlin really liked this one. It's a it's the report that I give to the board of finance every month. This is good. And I thought, well, you guys should have it too. So it's really just a kind of a summary. Yep. But I like that it has all the grants. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yes.
If you wanna take a look at that in your spare time,
and
it basically reflects what the expenditure report for, and the only really difference is that there's grant information in there.
And then finally, I did get the bank statements from the town. Okay. And I was happy to see that
on the last page, it looks like our the 2%
that we contributed
from last year's final audit was put in here. So I was very happy to see that. Good. And the front page really kinda sums it up. But,
yeah, we're looking good. My
>> only question on the additional stuff. Yes.
When you do
>> the one that you give to the board of finance Yes. Is that every month? Like, you add the grants over on the side? Yes. Yeah? Yeah. So what I do is there's somewhere I go there's a a site that I can go into on the state side to see what's been paid out, and then I just match it to what I have.
>> So, yes, I just record each month what we've gotten for grants. Can you start can we can you start including this, like, with our normal stuff every month? Yeah. Yeah. And then pre K, I know we had in last month's, and then we'll start with that again. Right. I was Yeah.
It it didn't change. So it hasn't changed yet. Yeah. So Yeah. Yep.
Yes. So, yeah, you wouldn't start that again until We will have the pre K reports
in we'll have all this in September. Yeah. Okay?
>> Yeah. Does anybody have any questions on all this wonderful No. Think it's someone who's here to look at for the grant stuff. The note that I'll send about the 14 k that's being bought back from the government and how is that
>> is that coming out of grants, or is that kinda from the town side? Or how is that That is the title grant that's being held, the title one, I believe. Okay. Valerie, am I correct? I believe it's title one and title
three or title two. Title one Title one against something else. And that is a significant amount, obviously, for our tiny school district. So two and four. I mean, some districts have a lot. Thank you.
>> Yeah. Does that is that something that's held back from the school directly, or does it go it goes to the town and then we
>> It comes to our town. So that's that's what I draw down
>> every year. That's that's part of these draw downs. Okay. So So we have a 14 k hole we have to fill.
>> Next year, most likely. Yes. Yeah. Not for this coming year. Because those are two year grants.
Those are two year grants. I think we're okay for this year. It's gonna be next year. That's gonna be only currently
town versus principal.
>> Okay. And that and that affects not this coming school year, but the one after?
2627.
The title grant? 2627.
It's
>> too bad. It's not like a phone where you can see it. No. She said it could affect you. Oh, I don't worry about that. Alright.
>> So just wait and see. So we just have to wait and see that. Yeah. Okay. I think it's true. We're oh, yeah. That's true. Because we haven't really started drawing anything down. Yeah. Yeah.
This should be interesting.
But, I mean, that's that's why we have a 2%. That's right. We have a rainy day fund. Yep. Yep. Yeah. Yep.
Okay. Okay. That was a good question. Thank you.
And
I I don't I don't have any questions.
Mike, any questions?
Nope. All set.
Okay.
Thank
you.
Thank you.
K.
Anyone have any other liaison reports or updates?
Oh, I I don't have anything from the PTA.
>> You didn't even have one? I didn't. You guys didn't have a meeting yet. But
>> I'm here before we know. And I know as soon as we talk about school readiness, I should have been apologize. I didn't think of it. I should have put it in my that the so if you remember, we're now doing the LGP, which is Early Start Connecticut. We did meet
about two weeks ago.
So Lebanon,
Andover, and Hebron because we will become a, I don't know, consortium, whichever you call, LGP together.
And so we will five times this summer just to do the launch work of this new
committee, I guess you could call it. And we're working with Eastcon, who's the fiduciary that will help to support.
And,
certainly, I will keep you guys posted as we get kind of up and running, but certainly it has goals to support not just
our individual pre K, but zero to fives as a whole in our community. So Do you guys have local day care providers that are involved with that yet? Not yet, but that would be the hope.
In the past, we've had the home day care here in Andover. Yeah. Her name is I'm blanking. Brandi's.
Brandi's. My best one there. Yeah. She's come to our school readiness meetings on occasion.
So she would be one. So you don't have to necessarily get school readiness funds to be a part of the LGP.
But whether or not people certainly wanna invest time and energy to it. And then we'll also be looking for parent ambassadors
who will serve kind of more as the ones out in the community figuring
out the needs of the community and how we best serve them. So
it'll be a good try town even though certainly,
you know, maybe it's not the three towns that would necessarily work together for everything. I'm I'm excited, and I think it'll be great. So we'll more to come on that.
Great.
>> Do you guys do you need help with getting parents to be on that, or you're gonna reach out? We will,
>> but not quite. We're gonna need a few more times because we'd have to establish
shared bylaws. We have to establish all the things. So I was ready to go too. I was like, do I am I ready to get parents? Because some of the parent ambassadors will be paid positions as well, which is different
and new. So, you know, you kinda have to it's almost like a hiring process in that sense. So
by the end of August, we'll we'll be ready to kind of make sure we're up on the ground, and that's the state expects by September.
By January, essentially, that you're operating smoothly,
so kinda have the six months to
operate.
K. Yeah.
Okay.
Anyone else have any liaison things?
No? K.
>> Okay.
So we'll talk about the solar project update, which we kind of already did.
Basically, that Jeff and I both signed an addendum agreement
and that they're hopefully going to begin installation
at some point. That's great. So long road, but we'll be back here today. Thank you, Jen.
And then the audit update,
I kind of already briefly talked about that. I don't know if anyone has any other questions pertaining to the audit.
I
don't I don't have any. K.
>> Bathroom project update
is pretty much that we're waiting for them to send us updated plans.
We did reach out
Valerie reached out to
other people in terms of
forming that committee.
So we do have
DeRuger is gonna be the representative for the board of finance. Oh, great. All good. And then Jeff Murray for the board of selection. Cool.
Eric,
Mike,
and then Eric Sanderson
from the community. Great. I
think that's what we have for right now. And until we get more plans back, we'll just kind of wait, which hopefully
Val, did he give you an update on when that was gonna be? I know, like, what, two weeks ago, he said maybe another week. So
>> I want the little bubble. Bubble. I know. The bubbles She was there. The bubbles would have this. She's she's thinking.
Yeah.
>> See? She she got nothing. Where do you wanna sleep in hot flashes? There is no bubble. There isn't. You know when you're texting and someone's talking, like, yeah. Don't think I was like, where I thought she said This week. This week. Okay. K.
I love the little bubble. Wish we had. Here we go. Oh, okay. Okay. And then the last item we have for discussion and action is our policies
for the 2,000 series.
So
hopefully, everyone has a copy of those.
Yep. Yep. You want one or you have it? You have it? Okay. So
I think what Valid recommended that we do in terms of going through them is just go through one at a time. And if everyone says it's good the way it is, then we put it in one pile. If anyone thinks that there's something that we want to change or discuss or that we need to notate or add, then we put it in a different pile. All the ones that we said are good, we can then go through and, like, reapprove
with an updated date. Mhmm.
And then we'll review the other ones either tonight or after, depending.
>> So before we start, I just wanted to make a comment about the effects of all of them,
and that is that I think we need consistency.
So just in reviewing these, sometimes it's called superintendent schools. Sometimes it's called superintendent.
Sometimes it's board. Sometimes it's board of education.
Sometimes it's school district. Sometimes it's school system. So it would be great
given that we're revising all of the policies. We might as well just be consistent and start from the get go.
>> So I would imagine some of that is because some of them are pulled from Oh. One place and from another. Another. And they've come in all throughout many, many years. Yeah. Yeah. Just wanted to do that. The audit review. Right? It tells you, like, if it was based on a paid policy or if it was based on
Yep.
And that's probably where most of that comes from.
>> So I just wanna say instead of going through each one and saying that's how I would change it, that you need to do that throughout.
K. K?
K.
>> So maybe then are you did you write those changes in already as you went through them? Mhmm. K.
Okay. So
administration.
So is it just straight 2,000?
>> Yeah. I noticed that the
page number is, like,
2,000.
>> I had no problem with that with that first one. Okay.
>> Anyone else? Yep. Just the The only question I had on that one was
in our in the big one, they say it's listed in table of contents, but it's in manual. It needs to be added to the manual.
Okay. K.
>> That's what I got. The only question here. Only question I'll put in here that we need to deal with throughout is whether we're gonna call ourselves
a school, a school system, school district.
What do you think we should call ourselves?
>> I feel like personally, I feel like it's appropriate to call ourselves a school district because we never know if the number of schools within a district are going to That's what we thought. Yeah. Yeah. I like school district.
>> She's a superintendent of school, so I think school district is pretty great. Yeah. So then on 2000, it would change from school system to school district in the second paragraph.
And altogether, boarded that superintendent brought a block.
Just come out of here. But
K. Yeah. I can just give them all to Diane. When When you're done? Yep. Yep. Okay.
And
>> then So one more I'm sorry. So is it is it gonna be the superintendent of schools or just the superintendent?
>> Superintendent after we define superintendent of schools, like, during the first policies. You know? Okay. Yep. Okay. Other than when we get the,
one of the ones in here where it says, that it's a title of the policy, I think that should be superintendent of schools. Okay. By doing that, great.
K. Two one one one. Alright. Expiration. Lots of changes on this one. Not lots of changes, but just updates.
K.
>> Anyone else have? It's not substantive. Well, it's substantive. But
>> I didn't have anything. But go ahead, Sheila. I have a nice check mark. I know. That's Me too. Check mark. Right? What are you doing? For most of these. Gosh. I looked at the statutes there.
>> I buttered. We looked at the law.
And so instead of just race, gender, whatever, it's now
a lot of different things. Religion, national origin, alienage,
color, race, sex, gender identity, or expression,
sexual orientation, blindness, mental disability,
physical disability, age, status as a veteran, or status as a victim of domestic violence.
So Okay.
Yep. All that gets instead of raise your hand or whatever. That's it. And then I just updated the statutes. K. Perfect. That will be fine. That is.
>> What's that? We can just put that in a Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Change. I remember. I think so I think at the end, we're like, I think if it's changes like this Yeah. Right, we can all say that we agree to pass these revised as your edits suggest. Right. And then if it's ones that we there because there's some that we need to, like, add a legal citation for that's, like, whatever more involved, we'll put it in a different category. Super. Okay.
Twenty one twenty one for
administration lines of responsibility.
Check.
I'm good. Check. Mhmm.
Points. It's all good. Yeah.
>> Oh, I just had a question, though.
Teachers are responsible directly to the principal. Is
that also, like, paras too?
Or
Which one are you on, plus? I'm on 2121.
It doesn't indicate that on this one.
>> So but, yes, then they are. Later on in this packet, I think it says that. It's yeah. I think it's in a different Okay. Action. Them in a different category. Okay. Because they're a different category. Okay. Yep. Okay.
Because they're considered, like, noncert.
Right. Right. Yeah.
2130.
>> I had I had that done. I'm good there. Questions. Good.
Alright.
And then 2131
a.
I had nothing. Good.
Good. Mhmm.
>> b.
Oh, I did it. Oh, b is just a second page. It's Mhmm. I read the system. I I had a question, though.
>> On personnel,
number 10, he she may authorize the payment of par all of the expenses of a candidate for teaching position if the candidate are asked to come to the district for visits or interviews. Mhmm.
Are we paying for their flights? Are we paying for their mileage?
>> Or It just means you can. That leaves it pretty vague. It says that you can if you wanted to. Okay.
>> We have not this year. Okay. I'm wondering. But would would the board be notified if if we did if if that was you know, like, for example, like, if Doctor. Sullivan came back, we we had her come from Texas. Like,
>> how do we know that that's happening? That's all I'm Typically, it doesn't happen with teachers. We did have out of state people, and we even had out of state fly here and demo lesson.
Okay. We wouldn't Okay. Typically.
Paper expense, perhaps
in an administrative
position.
>> If there was someone were, like, looking to hire a principal. Super yeah. That maybe had someone. But Okay.
But I think the way that it's written currently, it's big enough that it We wouldn't leaves it up to Right. Out of the ordinary. So I assume Just I've never seen that. You know? Just okay. Alright. I've never heard of paying anybody to go. That's why I was like, oh, okay. It's pretty common in Vetmed. Okay.
And then the third page for 2131?
>> Do I think it's just to change the beginning of all of them just to be a two like the rest of all of them? Yeah. Instead of each each other and blah blah blah. Yeah.
Oh, to determine
>> Yeah. How to determine. Yep. Too many such rules. Blah blah blah. Okay. Yeah.
And then twenty one thirty three for principal.
>> So there were two,
and I think we should go with the second one. There's two there, twenty one thirty three that say principal.
>> I that's why I circled them because I was confused. Yeah.
>> So I say we get rid of the first one Okay. And use the next one, which is way more detailed.
>> K.
And then on the second one, it also says principles. Like Yeah. No. Plural. We can't guess that. Yes, ma'am. Okay. And then I had probably way less edits than what you have on yours. No. Under number two,
I I don't like the word may.
It bothers me.
Where are you here?
>> Create an environment wherein teachers and students may achieve years you won't understand. I
>> wish you But I don't think they may not. I don't think you can mandate it. Mean, you can't No. Then you can Oh. I said so I set the environment to do it.
>> Right. But, like, we're able
to achieve. I don't know. I just
>> May is fine. Okay. I have a question on the one before it, though. Can
>> we go back to the the can we go back to 2133?
Because I just had I had a question. So that's not on '33.
We're on the
>> second one. Yeah. I wanna go to the first one because I had a question. It
says within the framework of the policies of the board and the general rules and regulations set by the superintendent, the principal may establish and enforce such rules as heshe deem advisable and necessary for the efficient operation of the school.
Are those rule like, where are those rules? Is that separate then from our policies, or what's, like, what's an example? Create a staff handbook, say Okay. That says,
>> you should be outside at your door greeting kids. Okay. Say that's a rule I wanted to make. Okay. And it fits within your board policies. It fits within VALS rules for me. I could then say that's a rule I want Okay. And tell staff. And how so okay. And then how would you note yeah. No. That's exactly what I'm looking for. I I had I wrote down example. Yeah. And then what's the notification?
Like
To staff? Yeah. To the staff. Like So
>> I do not we do not have a a separate staff handbook here. We I've been in schools that do. I feel like our teacher contract and is pretty explicit enough in most of those things. Okay. So that communication would just be from my staff meetings or emails. Okay. Perfect. Thank you. Yep.
>> Alright. Go ahead. So so what Shannon was saying is if you look at that page by itself Yeah. That paragraph
or
of what's there is similar to the beginning of the next one. Yep. Right. So it's so we're getting rid of
the little one. Got it. Okay. And then keeping the one that's longer that's 2133.
Got it.
And
>> then you don't like number I just don't like the word May, but she says it's normal for lawyers to make that. So
>> It's either a May or a shall. That's what you do. How about shall?
>> Shall achieves mutual understanding. I don't think that you wanna mandate that. I don't think you wanna mandate shall. I wanted it to be, like, are able to. Like, instead of, like, you might achieve
something.
>> Can achieve that? Yes. I put can or are able. Well, why can't you just create an environment wherein teachers and students achieve mutual understanding?
>> Because you can't guarantee that they're going to achieve it. I'd love to. Fair enough. Okay.
>> And you might guarantee that. It's a little bit, but that's fine. No. I get it. I dig it. I I didn't have anything, but that K. The only thing I had is the second to last paragraph. I'm just curious.
I I know it's part of your responsibility,
Taylor, but to me, it seems also what we've mandated for Val to do as far as
I think she's responsible for the administration, business management,
and community relations
more than you are or in addition to you, especially as far as community relations. But
what do you feel about that?
>> I mean, do you feel responsible for Valerie's responsible for everything, right, in the sense of the big umbrella, but then I am responsible for carrying out her vision essentially. Right? So,
I mean, certainly, she could chime in, but
>> I support in all of those areas. Believe that helps. I didn't know. So that's why I'm asking if that was more if you felt comfortable having that as a responsibility.
>> Yeah. So, I mean, it might look different for how valid this community relations versus I do, but
I I think it's fair. More of the business management and stuff, was curious. So same thing like business management might be for me. Like, I work with teachers to set their ordering and their budgeting, right, where Val would set
other things. So Fire. Yeah. So so if that tracks Yes, ma'am.
Yeah.
And
>> then we have a page that we removed
from assistant principal because we do not have one. Yep.
Twenty one thirty five for director of special ed.
That's a lot of responsibilities.
>> I circled some things and put a question mark next to them because I don't know as though they exist.
A handbook for distribution
on the special ed program at our school.
>> So
the website typically has, like, Child Find and how a student is referred to special education.
So we have an SRBI.
I don't know if it's, like, the handbook. It's not manual. Handbook. I think it's called manual. Okay. So, I mean, it's definitely
Available?
>> Yeah. So so should we change that to say it's gonna shall be published in a handbook for distribution?
Shall be You mean, everything used to be handed out, right, on paper? But assuming that's gonna now just write, like It shall be available available. On the school's website.
>> How about it just shall be available? Yeah. Okay. Available.
>> Which shall be available. Framework is. Yeah. Yeah. Because then what if you take it off or whatever? The website crashes. That never happens here. I'll say that.
And then the other question that I had on this page was
educational surveys dealing with special education. Do have we done surveys on special ed? Yeah. The state will periodically
>> offer them, or a school district can make their own for students for families after PPT to complete Okay. Or at the end of a year. So
they're not
>> I'd have to look up specifically the frequency Okay. And how often, but, yes, they are. I guess my my question and it probably it doesn't have anything to do with necessarily policy, but it made me think about when you do your, like, parental
surveys
Mhmm. Could you add a question about, like, I don't know, like, if your kid has
>> used services or Sure. Participate. Some might argue that's being so small, it would identify them and take away their anonymity.
Okay. Right? If you filled it out that you're not pleased
with
Terry, and you also say you have a student in special education. I don't know. Right. But, yes, that is always the small district.
>> Like, dilemma. Dilemma. Right. It's how Do have any comments regarding
>> And so sometimes people do.
But I think that's why the state more often organizes the special education feedback because they
aggregate it. Right. Do their thing sometimes.
But I don't know the frequency. Can get you that.
>> On
the second page,
I have a question just about the word handicapped.
Is that is, like, per lawyerly writing,
is that the word that should be being used in these? Because it seems very
>> odd to me. Where is it? Which number are you? 19. In '19.
>> That's Yeah. That's that's weird. Meetings of the PPT on the handicapped with parents.
Yeah.
>> On the student. On the student. Right?
Or, like, on the pupil? Yeah. That's fine. Yeah.
>> So then what about to ensure that an annual review is made of the status of each exceptional child?
Is that Which one? Which number is that? 21.
See, that doesn't bother me because
I don't
>> But are those, like, the, like So so so sometimes they call them exceptionalities
Yes. Okay. As opposed to disabilities.
There's a lot of terminology. Right? So
I think 19 is fine with the student.
How about 21?
>> To schedule meetings of the on this
on the student with parents.
>> To schedule The problem is you can't just say child on '21 because we don't have an annual review on every child. Yeah. Right. So you have an annual review is made of the status of each you could say student identified
through special education or five zero four or something like that if you wanted.
Or student in the
special education program?
>> Student
yeah. Or five zero four,
which I guess maybe these aren't under.
They're not talking about five zero four. So yeah. It's Yeah. It doesn't say They're just special education.
Exceptional is okay, though. Exceptionality
exceptionality
is not great. It's an okay term, but if you wanted to change it. Okay.
>> And then on the third page, I also circle where it's gonna handicap on the number 25. Yeah.
It's say special or I could say special education.
You wanna say exceptional again? Sure.
>> So child find is making sure that we have located all students in our community that need support, and particularly,
typically, it's zero to fives. Okay. So if a family doesn't maybe know that there's access. So we put in the paper, you might see once a year, Holly will put in,
hey. December
20,
we're open for any families who might wanna come in and and make sure their child is immunity services. So that's really your zero to fives. Applies to all ages, but that's where you usually have to seek out families.
>> Child Find is not in itself a program. Right? It's just a It's a universe of activities. Yeah. Okay. Thanks. But it's identified to the point that writing it like this in a policy is appropriate? Correct. Yep. It's a it's a statute. It's a law. Okay.
>> K.
Anyone else have anything on that page? Twenty
one forty?
>> Twenty one forty, the only thing I'd like to do
and we don't have to do it now, but look at leaving in items
from '20
or the cave
policy 2400
that that was recommended,
a good practice one.
>> Sorry. You said 2400?
It's not within our policies. Wait. What I just want Put over here for recommended. They there's one under 2,500.
Oh, I'm sorry. Is that what you mean
>> or no? The 2,400 was not under the good right good practice. That is one, though, that Gabe has
that speaks to superintendent evaluation in more detail.
So it's one I'd like to flag just to add more detail of what that process would look like. Okay. Which which number is it? 2400
is what they
>> is the number. Okay. So we didn't so
we'll get there. Yeah?
It's not gonna
>> No. I understand.
But can we just can we talk about it when we get to Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Great. If we're going in order.
Yeah. Okay. But 2140
here. Okay?
>> So long as we weave in what's in 2400.
2400. Yes.
>> So in terms of adding that in, because you said it's more specifically about
reviews?
>> Reviews, how they're conducted, timing.
Okay. It's something I think the board would be good to review. Yeah.
>> Do you think that the two of you could work together on possibly what that Well, I'm just curious how we certainly expect we wanna be in that regard because this says we'd do it annually
Yep. With guidelines and criteria that we've agreed on, which is what we typically do. Yes.
I don't know how much more descriptive 2400
is. I didn't take a look at it. Descriptive.
>> So that's why like, I'm okay with going through this process and saying we're good with with, like, the 2 thousands and then pulling back to a couple. Mhmm. That's that's the question of course, like, you wanna balance. How do you wanna
>> if we wanna add policies in, like, how do you wanna Well, I think the hard the hard part will get to right is in terms of as a written policy, you wanna make sure that it's not so specific that you're
boxing yourself in too much. Yep. But I think maybe at least maybe for our next meeting, like, we could look at that specifically.
Okay. And you could come up with maybe a couple examples from other districts in in terms of how theirs are written.
Because it it's definitely an area, right, as a board that we've struggled with. Mhmm. So maybe we do need to have it better defined, but not
>> Just super not too specific. That yep. Dave note that twenty one thirty one kind of follows her typical evaluation,
kind of mimics that
those categories, so to speak. So that's something that I don't know if the board's just used in the past as a way to guide them in that.
>> Yeah. In terms of, like Right. Each area. Yeah. Right. So We're not based off of a state model. Correct. Exists already. Yeah. Yep. Yep. Okay.
is the one that they want a legal reference on that we don't currently have.
Definitely need to add that. Yes.
What
what could you repeat that? What'd you say? We need a legal reference. That was, like, what they notated in their review. Yep. Got it. Okay. And I also had a question. I
>> we've never done this,
and I don't think it was good to do it, to bring three finalists to the board for consideration.
I mean, I think the superintendent
brings
that person she's chosen
to the board. And if the board doesn't approve of that person, then
that was just my concern or curiosity.
>> I guess it depends honestly, it really I feel like it depends on what the position is. Right? Well, this is all for administrative positions. That'd be for But that doesn't specify which administrative position. We
>> only have
two,
like, full and special ed Yeah. According
to this. Unless you're in there too, Gary. I don't know. I think I am. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah.
>> Which really is like, it's that what we've actually done has been very different than what we're gonna do for all of those. Yeah. Like, when we hired
for Taylor, like, I mean, we were all on different committees, and we interviewed a ton of candidates, and then we hit, like
>> But I'm getting at the superintendent bringing actually bringing three finalists to the board. Yeah. That was didn't do that. We And that would feel really weird, don't you think? So I think Val's thought in she's writing there is that in some ways, because instead she had you on the committees, you were involved in the interviewing Right. That you did essentially see three finalists,
>> if that makes sense. Yes. But I but I feel like you need write it differently then. Yeah. Agree. A little bit more vague in here. That's right. Yeah. Because that's kind of how that Okay. How she then so then we need a legal reference, but, also, we want the policy to be more In line with what and in line with what we do. Right. Because because, like, I was on an interview panel. I didn't interview you, but I there was a couple other people. There was a couple panels that I'm getting Yeah. Were agreed. She probably split it in a way that Yep.
You saw. Right. But she didn't bring
>> three only three people. To them statement about it. Yeah. Yeah. Which some do. Yeah. It was, like, it was, like, seven candidates for three different groups. Correct. Enjoys because Yeah. Right. Then you're putting two people. Yeah. But then, like, hiring Terry, like, totally different process. So I think Yeah. For it to be more vague would be Yeah. Helpful.
Okay. Sure. Yep. Very flexible.
>> Yeah. Flexible flexible flexibility
with the
with what the requirements
of the Yes. Are. Something like that. Yep.
>> The word vague means you're to me means you're trying to hide someone.
There you go. Less
stringent.
Mhmm.
With the legal references,
how do we get those?
>> Ask a lawyer. Or cave? Or Probably from cave, I think. Yeah. Cave. Yeah.
>> What's the legal reference that we need in this one?
>> It just says we need a legal reference. Okay. Oh oh, I get it. I'm sorry. You're looking okay. Yep. Yep. Yep. Got it.
>> But, like, if you look look under the one before that, like, it says Connecticut General No. I get it. I just I'm like, what? What the whatever. So it'll be something similar to that. But I love it.
>> A different number. Yeah. Val will take those ones. She's the that legal reference she can find. Yeah.
>> I'll get them. Oh, okay. I'd like them both to find it, and then I don't like whose is better. Better. Absolutely. I'll ask Jackie. I'll get them.
Of course.
Here we go. What is the legal reference?
Yeah. Jackie will find it. Fine. 2200
administrative operations.
>> I didn't I didn't have any. I don't have any.
>> Anyone else?
You have a lot of K.
Let's go medical. K.
2210.
I had a question.
>> So in cases where emergency action must be taken within the school system and where the Board of Ed has provided no guidelines for administrative action, the superintendent shall have the power to act.
Like,
what would be an example of that?
She gave me an example too. Was it COVID?
I mean
>> COVID. I think it was really bad. Like COVID and masks. Yeah. I thought it was COVID. Okay. Yeah. So she if you have to oh gosh. Suddenly, we're a pandemic with shutdown, then she's gonna afford to call you right away, but she had to make an executive decision. Right. And it shall be the duty of the superintendent to inform the board. Yes. Okay. Alright. So COVID. I I just wrote down examples. Yeah. Okay.
2220.
Anyone?
I
>> just if the develop hold on. I wrote a question mark here, but I don't know.
In the development of rules
>> If she's going to make some new rules, regulations about the custodians,
she's going to try to
involve those Okay. In the plan. Involve the custodians.
Yeah. Just the way it read,
It made no sense. Right. Yeah.
>> Yeah. That's why I wrote a question mark because I I couldn't understand what It's very fancy. It's fancy. But to gather input essentially for those that she is Okay.
>> Okay. You didn't write it, Chen? I did not. Okay.
>> Yeah. Yes. It doesn't make sense. It's really just about getting
>> Input. Yeah. And sometimes schools have formal committees called staff advisory, but essentially just making sure. We used to have a superintendent's
>> advisory.
Yeah. Absolutely. And we used to have a teacher's advisory. Okay. Yeah.
Yeah.
Luckily, she gets all 50 to advise her.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I didn't always get Mhmm. I didn't have anything from the consultants.
Didn't have anything. No.
No. I
didn't have anything on that one. And then
$22.32
for dismissal.
Administrative
reports, annual report announcements.
>> So the superintendent shall be responsible for submitting to the board an annual report indicating the effectiveness of instructional program, the condition of the school, and plans and suggestions.
So we don't necessarily get an annual report.
We're hoping to get that. Yeah. So she,
>> you know, certainly said this would be one she'd love to discuss. Okay.
She has a little bit of a stronger voice. Okay. However,
you know, we we talked through some of the things. So we do this a lot more in pieces. Right? I give the report about aspect testing about Right. You know, she gives her superintendent's report monthly Okay. Around facilities, around, you know, condition of the schools, suggestions for improvement. But,
you know, certainly, it was one she said we can talk about. Okay. Is it a way
>> Right. That because I I underlined annual.
Because, you know, because, like, we don't get anything annually. Not a year. I feel like we need to Mhmm. Mix this. Yeah. Yep. Yep. So for me, like, this is the third one we're putting. Yep. That made sense to me. Yep.
And
then 2240.
I had I had a question just in reading it. I don't have an issue with the criteria, but I wasn't sure, like, does a study have to meet all four of those criteria or just one of those four criteria?
Because it doesn't really define that.
>> No. Before it's approved, it has to the criteria have to be considered. It doesn't even have to meet one of those.
>> So So I don't understand the point of this then. So I get, like, requests, say, from Yukon, yeah, that says, hey. We wanna do this study on your kids.
It just ensures that I'm just not, I guess, willy nilly like, hey. Anybody can come in and go study our kids. I have to make sure that it's going to
do something,
one of these things that
Okay.
>> That will benefit kids and So I I guess my issue then, and maybe it's because I'm not a lawyer, is because it just says we'll be utilized to make a determination. It doesn't say, like, that a study must meet one of the following criteria.
Or It's laxable.
>> So I'll reclimate and that research with the I interpreted one or two because some of them studies are directly with kids, and some of them are more with teachers. Right.
>> So I saw that too. And then then That's kinda like, it gets any one sure. It's gotta do one or two. Yeah. And then four would be required
no matter.
Okay. K.
>> Like, I think it makes sense the way it's written. It just
>> yeah. Okay. Doesn't happen often. I think the parts participation
in
educational research,
you probably need permission from the
everybody who's involved. Oh, yeah. Of course. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay. Was more ambiguous. Read the final one really carefully and got to the last word.
Last one. Number 12.
Commits to servicing servicing others above self.
>> Oh, come on. It's funny.
So service to others instead of servicing others. Above self? Yeah. Never mind. I'm
>> probably missing it. You're missing, you know, one. But in nature. Let's not go any further than that. Oh, I understand. Okay. Got it. Okay.
Thank you. And that's our review of the policy,
everybody.
Shannon Loudon, everybody. No. I
>> just didn't want it to be in her policy, Celeste, because that one is really clear. You just had to waste yourself putting that can't rid of number, Paul. I would like you we could put service to others. Service submits?
>> To service to others. Above self. Mhmm.
Yes. Thank you.
>> K. We'll call it a trick of the training. Okay.
So
>> out of all of these Yes, ma'am. Then I would love if we could someone could make a motion to with
your grammatical
changes. Yep.
>> I'll make a motion to approve of all of the policies
Except for grammatical changes other than?
2151.
Mhmm.
Yep. 2140
and
2232.
22.
Yes.
Yeah?
2232?
22321.
>> Oh, point one. Oh, it's the annual report. Yeah. The annual report one. Yes. Okay.
Those are the three that we Yes. And the and the 2140
is specifically because of
where it talks about
annual evaluation and, like, what we would Mhmm. Want that to be. Okay. Yep.
>> And do you want a second? I'll second the motion. Great. Okay.
Any further discussion on our motion?
>> So the next steps is you
would make your changes on those ones that you you
>> clean up, and then we do we have to rereview those, or, like, we we're just done? No. We always have to do a review of the policy, and then we have to have a second reading before it's allowed to be changed to the policy. Correct.
Okay.
>> But but we don't have to, like, go through this whole thing again. We just read them, and we could say.
>> Perfect. Yes. Okay. And when will we do the the reread on those? Next month or Sept okay. Yeah. I think next month. Yeah. That's fine. Yep. Oh, and the other thing we wanted to do before
>> we go on the I'll amend my motion is to get rid of the first
twenty one thirty three regarding principal
and go with the second. Yes. Right. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
Mike, do you have anything?
No. I'm good on my end. You're good? Okay.
>> Someone seconded?
I I did. Yes? Okay. Any further discussion?
I don't have any.
Good? K.
All in favor?
Aye. Aye.
>> K. Great.
So then we'll look for our revised versions of those for next month. This one? And then
for the other three,
hopefully, it's a more
Discussion. Information and discussion. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And then Eric, the one
>> what was it? Ten at this time. What was it? 2140. 202400.
>> Yep. That is what it was actually under. Yep. We'll look at kind of if you can pull a couple from different places. Yeah. Yep. K.
Okay. And
>> then, Val, maybe you can help us with the
2232,
the annual reporting one.
>> She's good. Yeah. She wrote a little she gives one to the town annually. They get it from every department. It's required by Charter. So Okay.
She has that kind of piece.
Cool. Cool.
>> K. So
then, I guess, in terms of what we do next in terms of policies,
should we
leave next month's meeting to finalize all of those and review the three that we pulled aside before we add Yes. Another section? I would understand. Yeah.
And then after looking through all of this, just in terms of planning ahead, does anyone have a section section that they would like to do
next
as we look ahead? I have not looked at anything. And, Kjell, do you have a recommendation
on which section? I think
so.
>> I can't remember which is that. Look at next probably, like, September, October.
Okay.
>> Okay. So we'll plan on that on this go forward. Like, this yeah. Okay.
>> If we think that is a.
We'll have double the amount of
>> days. We'll do good. Yeah. Yeah. We're doing we're doing good. We're doing great. Oh, this was our easy one. Yeah.
>> Yeah. That's Yeah. Yes. For sure. Thanks, Sarah, for giving me the tip on there. Just let me know.
K.
>> Did anyone else have anything on policies
or logistics on what we do next?
No.
No. The 5 the 5,000 is the agreement.
>> Is that what you would like to do after the trial? Four policy. Perfect. Alright.
I
>> go I'm gonna I'm gonna put that in business. Okay. Alright.
I talked about that in August. It's okay.
>> No. September. Oh, September. Remember? So August is not gonna be easy. Oh, yes. I'm sorry. Yes. Yes. Yes. September. Too
fast. Sorry. I get excited.
Okay.
Comments from public.
Holly,
do you have any comments?
I
can ask them. Is that on
you? I would
>> just like to look at the the section on the director of special education for some of that wording that you changed. Would I have an opportunity to give any feedback on that towards that next meeting?
Okay.
>> Or maybe before next meeting, if possible, so that if you have
other
recommendations,
>> maybe we could try to revise those, and then we can look at them next time. Sure. It's on the website, Holly. Yes. And I actually I had an I was looking at it at the time on my phone.
>> Great. Okay. Okay. If you wanna send an email maybe with what recommendations or questions you might have, then we could
>> does that work? Yeah. That's fine. Okay. They're just a few.
>> Yeah. Okay. Alright. But it's better than trying to do it altogether.
Yeah. Yep.
Okay.
Thank you. Yep.
Doris?
>> Hi. I had a quick question. My there's something going on with my camera. I'm sorry.
You're good. There was a mention of some long term subs that were being placed. I think, Taylor had mentioned it earlier.
I was just wondering
about those long terms that she mentioned
if
there was a a a notice that was sent out, or are we going to hear more about it until,
before school begins?
For those of us that that sub
and for parents,
just curious.
>> Sure. Yeah. Absolutely. Families will hear
by the end of August, for sure. They're just continuation, so of our art and library. They just have it
going to be continuing. But at this point, I'm not sure yet who they are. That's not signed and sealed yet. So
should I need to post those again? They would be posted just like our other positions on CTREIT, but I haven't I'm not at that point yet.
>> Okay. Thank you so much. Thank you, everyone.
You're welcome. You
>> Thank you.
K. Does anyone have any other action items that we forgot?
I do not.
And, Val, do you have anything that we forgot?
No. Okay.
That might be a first. She may prefer. I
>> think she might this way of doing a meeting of the first. She
just gets to sit at home. I
>> don't think she does. I don't care. Yeah. No. Have you mailed out before? Yeah.
Yes. Alright.
>> So we're back here on the thirteenth. We're back here on August 13 at 4PM.
If you guys have dietary restrictions or requests, please make sure that you get those to Val. Val, I Val, I don't have any. I don't have any dietary restrictions or any requests. I like food. So I
just let it
>> throwing it out there. Not less. I eat. Oh, it's up to her. I don't know. Up to her. What? Do you have anything else? Last motion.
>> Oh. I don't wanna cut you off. Does does anyone have items for our next meeting that we need to put the agenda? Because we're probably like, solar, we're gonna have a little update. Right? And Yeah. Hopefully, bathroom project, have more. But is there anything else?
>> At some point, we have to talk about some potential review
for evaluation for the last year. So whether that's in August or September.
>> I mean, I feel like it's appropriate to do it in August, honestly. I would. So Okay.
K.
Yep.
>> Anyone else?
I don't I don't have anything else. Okay. Mike, do you have anything else for our next meeting? Nope. I'll send on my end. Okay. Papers. I have the papers. If I hand, I will be handing them Okay. To them. Yeah. No request, Val.
I'm good.
>> Okay. Go, Celeste. I make a motion to adjourn.
Seconded.
Okay.
All in favor. Aye. Aye. Thanks,
everyone.
Val, hope you're feeling better.